## AI / LLMs / chatbots

We have one main rule for using AI tools for contributing to this project: **be transparent**.

There are a wide variety of ways that developers are using AI. This project in particular sees many contributions from students and early-career developers, so we want to identify best practices and clear guidance to make sure that we're not breaking things with unregulated AI usage — including the functionality of the code itself, the maintainability and understandability of the code, and the open source processes for coordinating issues, PRs, code review, and other social elements of the project.

Proposals for specific guidelines, or practical advice, are welcome! Meanwhile, for the sake of learning more, the baseline requirement is to be explicit about any time you're using AI as part of a contribution to this project. If you use a chatbot to prepare a comment on an issue, say so! If you use a coding AI tool to draft code, be very clear about which tools you use and how you use them. This way, we can learn from each other.

### No AI-only PRs without local testing

If you're new to the codebase, please do not open a PR unless you've set up a local development environment and manually verified that the changes work as expected. AI tools make it easy to automatically generate a plausible PR, especially for things like simple refactoring and code quality issues, and such a change might not even break anything. But they might. We're only interested in contributions from developers who take their work seriously enough to understand it for themselves and to verify that things work as expected. In almost all cases — even if no visible change is expected — screenshots or video demos are mandatory. These provide valuable context for reviewers, document the UI of a feature at a point in time, make it easy to provide feedback on functionality and design, and help screen out low-effort untested AI-generated changes. If it's a backend-only change, take a screenshot of manual testing in a console or whatever you've done to prove to yourself that the change is working properly, and ideally, also a screenshot or video showing that a related feature didn't break, if a botched change would have broken that feature.

### General advice

Different AI tools have different problems. As of 2026, Claude Code is fairly effective at making changes in the Dashboard codebase (and the .claude files provide some support for using it well), but there are several things to be aware of with Claude Code and similar agents:
* You can't rely on AI tools to correctly interpret a bug or feature request. If you're starting from an open issue, it's important to understand it clearly for yourself, in human terms, before setting coding agents loose on it. The issue may be poorly described, or even incorrect, but the coding agent is happy to fill in the gaps and make assumptions. You should be able to clearly articulate the problem to solve and your ideas for how to begin solving it, before you let an agent start trying to code a solution.
* AI makes mistakes all the time. At every level that you don't carefully read, understand and test the code, you can assume that there are bugs, poor choices and technical debt. Make sure the important parts are ones you've tested and understood for yourself.
* AI code is hard for people to understand — especially because there is a lot of it. For a complex feature, an agent may create abstractions and organize code in ways that don't actually make sense to people or match up well with the core concepts the Dashboard is built around. Be especially careful about the interfaces between existing human-written code — especially when such code is well-structured and understandable — and AI-written code. Don't let the AI spoil good, clearly-organized files and code concepts.
* Using AI affects your learning process profoundly. Struggling with challenging problems is the main way humans build sophisticated intellectual skills (like writing and coding). Whatever you outsource to AI, you stop getting better at. That's good for you if you spend more time struggling with the problems and building the skills that you **want** to get better at. If your goal is to become a better software developer, identify the skills that are important to you and your development, and do those things yourself. The danger — reported by many developers who have adopted AI for coding — is that you'll turn off your brain without finding new hard problems to struggle with, and your skills will atrophy.
* If you want to work on this codebase without using AI, you are more than welcome to do so. If you're looking for something that is a good match for your skills and interest, please ask!
