## Article Scoped Programs

The Article Scoped Program course type behaves differently from others: when it comes to stats and the Articles Edited list, it only tracks articles that within the specified scope.

The scope of an Article Scoped Program is compiled from:

* Assignment records for that course (including all articles assigned to a specific user, as well as all Available Articles that are not assigned to a specific user)
* CategoriesCourses records that link the course to Category records, which include lists of article titles. There are several kinds of Category records, corresponding to different sources of title lists:
  * For 'category'-based Category records, the titles come by querying the MediaWiki API for all the articles in the specified category such as https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Presidents_of_Mexico . The `depth` attribute is used to include subcategories in addition to the main category; wtih `depth: 1`, the Category will include all articles in the category, plus all articles in the direct subcategories (but not the subcategories of those subcategories). This works whether the categories are used for mainspace pages (as in the example above) or the corresponding talk pages (like https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:High-importance_Mexico_articles ).
  * For 'template'-based Category records, the titles come by querying the MediaWiki API for all the pages that include the specified template, such as https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:WikiProject_Mexico . As with traditional categories, this works both for mainspace templates and talk page templates.
  * For 'psid'-based Category records, the titles come by querying the PetScan API. PetScan — https://petscan.wmflabs.org/ — is a powerful tool that can assemble lists of articles using a wide variety of data sources (including categories and templates, as well incoming and outgoing links, Wikidata relationships, and more). Users create a query on the PetScan website, which returns a PSID for that query, and that PSID is how the Dashboard connects to the PetScan API to get the list of articles. PetScan queries are dynamic; while the query for a given PSID cannot be modified, the results may change each time the the query is run, based on changes that happened on Wikipedia and Wikidata. Consult the PetScan manual for more details: 
  * For 'pileid'-based Category records, the titles come by queying the PagePile API. PagePile — https://pagepile.toolforge.org/ — is a somewhat similar tool to PetScan. The main difference is that a PagePile is a static set of articles that doesn't change over time. You can use a PetScan query (among other options) to create a PagePile, essentially creating a permanent snapshot of the PetScan query results. You can also create a PagePile from a simple one-per-line text list of article titles.